---
layout: post
title: Relationships and behaviours
comments: true
tags:
  - stuff
---

Last Saturday I went into a water park. I went with 5 medical doctors, who knew
each other.

I spent the whole day among them, and the reality was, that trying to socialize
with a group you do not know that shares a lot in common -specially work
ghettos- is really hard. If they do not try, you will never be integrated, it
doesn't matter what you do. Every question you ask, never returns, every
conversation you start won't probably last 2 or 3 interactions.

If I wasn't at the park -we had all the time something to do or somewhere to
go- I probably wouldn't have lasted with them half an hour.

I've seen this happen also at work. When somebody brought a relative or friend
to have lunch within the programmers gang that we join, it has been a total
disaster. At least I have my conscience clean.

I've tried hard every time. Asking questions, ignoring the comments of the ones
going all the time around technical and work topics, trying to keep the visitor
entertained as I could.

Why? Because I've felt it too. Multiple times. You join a group where you only
know one person, and unless you are really good with social skills (which isn't
usually the case, those are exceptions also), you feel isolated, and it just
isn't worth it.

It is even worse when you bring somebody you love or care about, and the people
you hang out with every day just ignore him/her to the extent of full boredom.
It's a huge shame. Both for me, and for the group.

So just a kind reminder, when somebody is visiting or joining you on a group,
please pay extra attention. Just a couple of details from each person can make
the difference between good manners and being absolutely rude.

Even if we do not notice, ignoring completely this person and showing
absolutely no interest, not only by not asking him/her, but by talking about
highly specific topics that only relate to the group, you are being highly rude
to him/her, making him/her uncomfortable and isolating him/her.

Yeah, maybe its just idle chatter, but that can be the starter for good
conversations. Anyway, isn't talking about your work with the
people you do everyday usually about the same shit -may be with a different
smell- even worse?

Social skills are hard, so are people, but there are some limits. Showing that
you do not give a fucking shit about the visitor that your *friend* does care
about says a lot about you and the relationship with said *friend*. If we did
not do it on purpose, let's be more careful next time. We can be better. Let's
do some social workout.

