
---
layout: post
category: post
title: People
comments: true
tags:
  - stuff
---

Meeting people is a curious experience. Everybody has its own way of
classifying people they meet. From what I have gathered from some productive
discussions, people tend to classify who they meet easily into two groups:

**Approachable & Hard**

It is that easy. Between the approachable you can find multiple types, but
classifying somebody on this group, makes you more willing to know them. On the
other hand, people that fall into the hard category at first sight, are usually
crossed off the '*I wouldn't mind getting to know you a little bit more*' list.

It's a real pity because there are plenty of interesting people on the hard
category.

That's what interests me the most. You can always get to approachable people,
but how to do it with the hard ones? Which types of hard ones can you meet?

Being hard to meet, they are also hard to know, so it gets quite difficult to
get any kind of classification on them.

From what I could grasp, I've found these aspects:

* Shies  

  They are very private with their life. There is a tough shield around, and
  it's hard to get to a confidence point. 
  Once there, it's usually very rewarding. When they show interest on
  your life, or you do with theirs and they answer, you know that the answers
  are sincere and wholehearted, and that you have a true 2-way conversation.
  Otherwise, they wouldn't even try and they would keep shut.


* Beasts  

  Rude, tough to approach in any way. Loud voices, hard behaviours, impertinent
  answers, inappropriate timing, etc. As the lack of emotion, the excess of it
  is difficult to deal with. This ones usually come with truth and emotion
  included. Get to know them, who knows how, and you have the best way of
  getting the bare truth, and also the bare joy and pain that come from such
  sincerity. Hard to hear, but also useful and hard to find, since most of
  the people live on a sugar coated layer of good manners that penalize
  sincerity.

There are more aspects we could extract from these people, but this are the
biggest ones I've identified until now. They mix in different ways, giving
birth to a full spectrum of people that are really hard to know.

Some of them will be worth it, some of them will not. But the ones that will
be, will be worth a million of the other ones.



