---
layout: post
category: post
title: Leaving it behind
comments: true
tags:
  - personal
---

### A long time

It has been a long time. In the back of my mind, I saw the time coming, but I
was getting really good money. I never asked if I really needed that money, or
if I was doing what I wanted to do. I just kept going.

With time I decided it was time to let go. Leave the job.

The decision has taken a lot of time to materialize. Since the day I thought
about leaving until now, it has been more than a year. The reasons for leaving
are varied and may be topic for future writings, I'm not going to think about
them here.

### The struggle and deception

Since the day I thought I had to leave, I've had many checkpoints, and like a
drug addict, I would say to myself:

  > Yeah, September will be my last month. For sure. I can't take it anymore.

And cheating to myself I wouldn't comply and let the dates slip. There were 3
or 4 checkpoints, I can't recall exactly, it is too embarrassing.

All that time, cheating to yourself as a price. A psychological one. The
burden gets bigger as time goes by, you suffer from lack of interest and
concentration, among other things, and you end up making a whole big trouble
of something that should have been a lot easier.

There are many things I tried to keep myself on track (on the job). Exercise,
reading, improving personal settings, and those have been great things to do,
but they are not solutions to facing your job situation and taking action.

### A final push

With time, I became closer to the ledge, and was determined to jump, but a
last push was needed. That push came from a friend, who was in a similar
situation on Ireland. We talked from time to time and shared our experiences
at work and our burnout. He finally took the extra step and told me, and that
was my last push.

His gentle hand propelled me of the cliff, and as I was falling to the unknown
I saw his majestic beard and I thanked him.

### Environment and opinions

The next steps were handling the environment. Telling friends and family.
There you can get every kind of comments, depending on how against the current
you are going.

In my case, I am not changing jobs, I am leaving the best paid job in the area
*"for nothing"*, the country is in extreme crisis with a 27% of unemployment
rate, etc. It is not hard to predict some of the comments you get.

Even knowing about them and being prepared, depending on who tells you and
exactly what they say and how personal they make their arguments, it can hurt.
It is not avoidable, it takes time for them.

It is necessary to comment also a bunch of great positive opinions and
responses, containing acceptance, trust, love, curiosity, reasoning, logic and
a lot more goodies. To those who responded that way, I'm really thankful and
they are great people to keep close.

From them, there has been a huge surprise. My father, who is overly attached
and proud of my current workplace and who I thought would overreact. but
instead he kept steady and calm, listened, and responded with a mix of
acceptance, resignation, common sense and advice. Thanks to him for such a
beautiful surprise.

### Learn

At the end, I'm happy for what I'm doing, and I feel embarrassed about my
behaviour during this ambiguous time. I hope to have learnt some lessons, and
maybe this writing will help somebody take the step.

##### ps

This is not the first job I leave by myself, without having nothing else (in
fact, it's the 4th time I do something similar). I do not know why I act this
way, nor if it is the correct one, but it seems to be my modus operandi.

Of the other times, there were hard ones, and easy ones, but I always felt
relieved afterwards. This time is taking me more to recover, and it has been
the tougher one.


